KXI-61765 extending FSI case study on compression with query statistics (#371)
KxSystems/docs: docs/kb/compression/fsicasestudy.md

While `set` is a common persistence method, intraday writedowns often use appends, implemented by [amend at](https://code.kx.com/q/ref/amend/#on-disk) like `.[file; (); ,; chunk]`. `set` also chunks large vector writes behind the scenes, this explains why our test showed no speed difference between the two methods, regardless of compression.

> # Query response time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query response time
```

When data is stored in a compressed format, it must be decompressed before processing queries. The decompression speed directly impacts query execution time.

In the query test, we executed 14 distinct queries. The queries vary in filtering, grouping and aggregation parameters. Some filters trigger sequential reads, and queries with several filtering constraints perform random reads. We included queries with explicit parallel iteration ([peach](https://code.kx.com/q/ref/each/)) and with [as-of](https://code.kx.com/q/ref/aj/) join as well. Data in the financial sector is streaming in simultaneously and as-of joins play a critical role in joining various tables.

The table below details each query’s performance metrics:

   * **Elapsed time** in milliseconds (measured via `\ts`)
   * **Storage read** in KB (returned by `iostat`)
   * **Query memory need of the query** in KB (output of `\ts`)
   * **Memory need of the result table** in KB

<div class="kx-perf-compact" markdown="1">

> |**query**|**elapsed time ms**|storage read (KB)**|**query memory need (KB)**|**result memory need (KB)** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**Query**|**Elapsed time ms**|**Storage read (KB)**|**Query memory need (KB)**|**Result memory need (KB)** |
```

      <td id="T_976be_row13_col1" class="data row13 col1" >3.0</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col2" class="data row13 col2" >3.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col3" class="data row13 col3" >3.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col4" class="data row13 col4" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col5" class="data row13 col5" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col6" class="data row13 col6" >3.0</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col7" class="data row13 col7" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col8" class="data row13 col8" >3.0</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col9" class="data row13 col9" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col10" class="data row13 col10" >3.0</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col11" class="data row13 col11" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col12" class="data row13 col12" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col13" class="data row13 col13" >3.0</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col14" class="data row13 col14" >2.5</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col15" class="data row13 col15" >3.0</td>
      <td id="T_976be_row13_col16" class="data row13 col16" >2.5</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> The table below displays the second executions of the queries, i.e., data was sourced from memory (page cache) hence the storage speed impact is smaller. Query `` select medMidSize: med (bsize + asize) % 2 from quoteNorm where date=2022.03.31, sym=`CIIG.W `` without compression executed in less than 1 msec, so we rounded up the execution time to 1 msec to avoid division by zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below displays the second executions of the queries, that is, data sourced from memory. Becuse is uses the cached page, the storage speed impact is smaller. Query `` select medMidSize: med (bsize + asize) % 2 from quoteNorm where date=2022.03.31, sym=`CIIG.W `` without compression executed in less than 1 msec, so we rounded up the execution time to 1 msec to avoid division by zero.
```

      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col3" class="data row13 col3" >1.8</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col4" class="data row13 col4" >2.1</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col5" class="data row13 col5" >2.1</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col6" class="data row13 col6" >2.0</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col7" class="data row13 col7" >2.0</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col8" class="data row13 col8" >1.6</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col9" class="data row13 col9" >1.8</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col10" class="data row13 col10" >2.0</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col11" class="data row13 col11" >2.7</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col12" class="data row13 col12" >2.2</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col13" class="data row13 col13" >1.7</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col14" class="data row13 col14" >2.3</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col15" class="data row13 col15" >2.0</td>
      <td id="T_9f355_row13_col16" class="data row13 col16" >2.4</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Compression improves performance when large datasets are read from slow storage. Thus, it is **recommended for cold tiers** (rarely accessed data).

> # Summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary
```

   1. **Hot tier** should not employ compression to allow maximal ingestion rate and fastest queries. The hot tier should be located on fast storage. This tier typically stores a few weeks to month of data.
   1. **The second tier** contains a high volume of less frequently queried data. We recommend using compression. If the goal is ultimate query speed, then `snappy` or `lz4` with level 5 or 6 are good choices. Choose `lz4` if the second priority is storage saving and use `snappy` if you would like the data migration process (from the hot tier) to be fast. If the storage space is limited and you would like to achieve a high compression ratio, then use 
      * `zstd` level 10 for most columns.
      * `gzip` level 5 for sequence number-like columns.
      * Columns with parted attribute (e.g. `sym`) are exceptions and should not be compressed.
   1. The **cold tier** contains high volume, rarely accessed data. It is typically placed on cheaper and slower storage, like object storage or HDD-backed solutions. We recommend using compression. If the second tier uses `lz4` or `snappy` then you might want to recompress the data with `zstd` to save more storage space.

> Not all tables need to be cut the same way. Frequently queried, "favourit" tables may reside in hot tier for longer period. On the contrary, there might be rarely queried columns even in a favourit table. **Make use of symbolic links to relocate column files to the preferred storage**.

Reviewer 2: 2 places that say 'favourit' . Not sure what this is, may have meant 'favourite'. May as well remove the term completely, just leaving it as a 'frequently queried table' rather than adding additional terms.

> # Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data
```
